# UnderWaterImageEnhancer

About: 
The oceans contain unknown creatures and vast energy resources, playing an important role in the continuation of life on earth. Since the middle of the 20th century, marine exploration worldwide has actively engaged in high-tech activities. But, the quality of underwater images is severely affected by the particular physical and chemical characteristics of underwater conditions, raising issues that are more easily overcome in terrestrial imaging. Underwater images also show color cast, which is caused by different attenuation ratios of red, green and blue lights. The existing system requires the parameters of underwater imaging model estimation or use inflexible frameworks which are applicable only for specific scenarios. Like Gray-Edge Assumption (GEA) as color correction methods to modify color and saturation of the images but GEA often fails to enhance the images as the contrast of underwater images is low and the edge features are hazed. The proposed method is an Unsupervised Color Correction Method (UCM) for underwater image enhancement. UCM is based on color balancing, contrast correction of RGB color model and contrast correction of HSI color model. Firstly, the color cast is reduced by equalizing color values. Then an enhancement toa contrast correction method is applied to increase the Red color by stretching red histogram towards the maximum similarly the Blue color is reduced by stretching the blue histogram towards the minimum. Then, the Saturation and Intensity components of the HSI color model have been applied for contrast correction to increase the true color using Saturation and to address the illumination problem through Intensity.


https://github.com/SujithaMer/UnderWaterImageEnhancer/blob/main/Documentation.pdf
